Okay,
guys.
And welcome back to another student Questions Amazon lecture.
Now,
this is a little bit more of a deeper dive of something that recovered in level two of this
course in the first project where we built an excel template.
It's all about protecting worksheets.
Then there are two elements to protecting the worksheet,
something we can do with cells.
Hair on.
Then also in the review tab,
we have this option of protect sheet.
Now,
by default all of the cells in excel when you right,
click them,
choose format cells.
If you come over to this little box here,
the protection tab.
This is a default setting for all cells in every sheet ticked locked until EQT hidden.
Now what?
What we're going to do is just for now,
I'm gonna show you what the hidden does.
So I'm just going to click hidden and quick.
Okay.
Here,
now,
in the form of about just say equals one plus one and enter.
So,
no,
When I select cell a one,
you can see that we get the result of two.
And in the formula bar,
you can see that we have one plus one.
So you can see the formula.
But when I hit protect sheet and click OK,
notice that you can no longer see the formula very useful if you want to hide your formulas
or where yourselves appointing to in the formula bar.
So use that hidden option.
So I'm just gonna un protect sheet.
I'm not using passwords just to speed things up format cells.
Andi,
There we go.
So never know.
Minute date.
Let me just delete that.
I'm gonna pick a couple of cells at random 12 and three and imagine these are way you want
the users to be able to access,
but nothing else.
So I'm going to right click format cells,
choose unlocked a minute,
uncheck the locked box and click OK,
and now I'm going to come up to protect sheet.
They remember this list.
Here's what we want the uses to be able tow access.
So what we want to say is what will believe that the default settings?
No.
So we'll allow the users till select locked cells and select unlock cells.
So here I can click on any celeb once.
But if I try and type anything,
it's locked so he can't so un protect and protect.
This summer,
I'm gonna own check the select locked cells.
So know what that means is I only want the user to be able to select the unlocked cells.
So when I click OK,
notice where the cursor jumps two weeks sell selected.
It's the 1st 1 that we unlocked in the right click in the format cells,
and if I hit the tab,
you can see that it was just cycle through those three cells that I clicked the unlock on.
So that's how you unlock individual cells.
So let's just wish through these.
If you want to check everything,
the use won't be able to do things little,
and they won't be able to click or change anything.
So what we can do is we can say,
select lock cells,
which obviously leaves the uses to select the lock cells.
So,
like the unlock cells,
which you've just seen format cells means it allows the users change any of the formatting
of the cell.
So the font color or the background color or the borders.
Same thing with columns,
but doing it for a whole column on the same thing with Rose insert columns obviously will
allow the uses to insert columns,
probably one that you don't want to use that often if you're using V lookups,
because inserting columns,
particularly if you're using V lookups in code that could really mess your code of
generally Excel will work out and change or formulas if you insert a column.
But encode not quite so insert Rose obviously exactly the same thing.
If you chick tech.
This,
it will allow uses to insert Rose on is quite straightforward stuff,
really.
It's insert hyperlinks.
If you check this,
they can insert hyperlink.
Delete columns.
Delete Rose.
Obviously,
if you click these,
you will allow users to delete rows and columns of data.
Probably not something that you want to do or use.
The sort function the auto filters pivots on these objects and edit scenarios.
Now,
if you want a little more data and you want to read Microsoft's version of this,
I've posted the links to their websites against this lecture.
Okay,
have a great day,
and I'll see you in the next lecture